java c
Department   of   Electrical   Engineering 
Final Examination 
EE E4321.    Fall, 2019 
December   16, 2019 
Time:   180 minutes 
Total: 250 points
1.       Consider   an   inverter   operating   with   a   supply   voltage   of VDD    with   logic    signals   that    swing   between   ground   and VDD.    Let VT    =   0.32   V   for   the   nFET   and   -0.32   V   for   the pFET.      Let   the   above-threshold      drain      current      be      governed      by      the      equation      ID=WCoxvsat(VGS-VT),    where   WCoxvsat   =   1 mA/V, for   the   nFET   and   by   the   equation   ID=WCoxvsat(VSG+VT),   where   WCoxvsat =   1   mA/V,   for   the pFET.      For   the   nFET,   Ioff    is   defined by   VGS=   0.0   V   and   VDS    =   VDD.      For   the   pFET,   Ioff      is   defined   by   VSG      =   0.0   V   and   VSD      =   VDD.       For   the   nFET,   Ion      is   defined   by VGS=VDD   and   VDS=VDD. For   the   pFET, Ion      is   defined   by   VSG      = VDD   and   VSD   = VDD.

(a)   Let VDD    =   1.2 V.    If   the   current   of   the   nFET   (pFET)   is   100   μA   at   VDS      (VSD)   of   VDD      at   a   VGS    (VSG)   of 0.32   V,   what   is   the   off-current   (Ioff)?          Assume   a   subthreshold   slope   of 90   mV/decade   and   ignore   DIBL.    What   is   the   Ion/Ioff   ratio   for   each   transistor?      (10 points)
(b)   Now   let   VDD   = 0.2 V.    What   is   the   Ion/Ioff   ratio   for   each   transistor?   (10 points)
(c)   If this   inverter   drives   a   load   of   10   fF,   estimate   the   delay   of this   inverter   at   VDD    =   0.2   V.   (10 points) 
(d)   If   the inverter   (with VDD    =   0.2 V) is   stimulated with   a   50%-duty-cycle   square   wave   at   its   input   switching between   0   and   0.2   V   with   a period   of   1   nsec,   what   is   the   average power   consumed by this inverter? (10 points)2.                              Consider   short-channel   effects.       Remember   that   device   VT    is   strongly   affected   by   bulk
charge under the channel.
(a)                      One   typically   finds   that   the   magnitude   of   the   threshold   voltage   of   a   short-channel   device decreases with increasing VDS.    Why is this? (10 points)
(b)                   Before    the    advent    of   advanced    halo    doping    techniques,    one    found    that    circuits    with smaller   channel   lengths   had   threshold   voltage   of lower   magnitude.      Why   was   this?      This   is   the   effect we described in class as “VT   rolloff.”   (10 points)(c)                   Modern    device    technologies    have    introduced    halo    doping.                In    this    case,    the    regiondirectly   under   the   source   and   drain   is   more   heavily   doped   than   the   substrate   as   a   whole.          This   helps   control   the   extent   of   the   source   and   drain   depletion   regions.       The    case    of   the   nFET   is   shown   below.      In   the   presence   of   halo   doping,   one   generally   finds   an   “inverse” rolloff   in   which smaller   channel   lengths   lead   to   higher   magnitude   threshold   voltages.      Why   might   this   be?   (10 points)
3.                         Consider   the    carry   chain   of   the   four-bit    static   ripple   carry   adder   shown   below.       Cload models the loading of   the sum circuit   at   each bit.      For   this   technology,   transistors   are   assumed   to   provide    kgate       =       1    fF/μm    of    loading.          Assume      that      the      fanout-of-one      (FO1)      delay      for      this   technology is τ1    = 25 psec. 

(a)                   If   W =   1 μm, what is   the   delay   of   the   carry   chain   from   Cin    to Cout?      (10 points)
(b)                   If VDD       =    1.2   V    and    W   =    1    μm,   what   is   the   energy   dissipated   by   a   single   propagated   transition through the carry chain?    (10 points)
(c)                   What    value    of   W   will    minimize   the   delay   of   this   carry   chain?       What    energy    will   be   dissipated at this value of   W for a single transition through   the   chain?      (9   points)
(d)                   Repeat   the   calculation   of   (c)   if   Cload      = 0.   (10 points)4.                            Sketch   the waveforms   for   scan_enable,   clock,   scan_in,   and   scan_out   for   a   test   sequence   to   scan   in   a   test   pattern,   clock   the   system   once,   and   scan   out   the   resulting   pattern   such   that   a   stuck-at-one   fault   at   node   X   could   be   detected.       Show    where   thi代 写EE E4321. Fall, 2019 Final ExaminationJava
代做程序编程语言s   would   be    detected   in   your   waveform. (20 points)5.                            Consider   the   clock   chopper   circuit   shown   below.       The   delay   block   (labelled ∆)   can   be implemented   with   an   even   number   of   inverters.(a)                      Consider      two      clock-chopped      flip-flops      separated      by      combinational      logic      as      shown below.    Assuming   that the   combinational   logic represents   a   fixed   delay   of 200   psec   and   there   is   skew between   CLK1   and   CLK2   such that   CLK2   arrives   100 psec   earlier than   CLK1, what is   the   maximum   value   ∆   (the   pulse   width   of   the   chopped   clock)   can   have   and   still   ensure   correct functionality?       Assume   that   the   latches   have   a   hold   time   of 50   psec   on   their   closed   clock   edge.   (10 points) (b)                   Assume   that   this   chopped   clock   with   the   pulse   width   calculated   in   (a)   is   driven   from   an   inverter with   a   load   capacitance   of 200   fF.             The   inverter   is   sized   4   μm /   2   μm   in   a   technology   with a FO1   delay of   τ1    = 25 psec.      Assume   a   gate   capacitance   of   2   fF/μm.      Sketch   the   waveform. of   the   clock   as   received   by   the   latch.       What   will   be   the   “height”   of   the   pulse?          What   problems might this present? (12 points)
6.                      Consider   the   following   dynamic   PLA   structure.
(a)                   We   discussed   in   class   how   it   is   necessary   to   derive   the   clocks   φAND       and   φOR       in   such   a   manner   that   the   OR   plane   does   not   being   to   evaluate   until   after   the   AND   plane   has   evaluated.   Furthermore,   both   φAND    and   φOR    must   allow   for   adequate   precharge   time.          If the   clocks   satisfy   this relationship, what   is the   logic   function   of   this   PLA   (i.   e, what   are   y0      and   y1      as   a   function   of   x0, x1, and x2)?   (10 points)(b)                   Design   a   replica   AND   row,   two   instance   of which   can   be   used   in   the   circuits   below   to generate φAND    and φOR   to meet the timing constraints described in   (a).   (8 points)7.                         Consider a long global wire from   driver A   to   receivers   B   and   C   as   shown   below.      Assume that   the   wire   is   0.4   mm   wide   and   has   a   resistance   of 0.076   O/square.       Its   capacitance   per   unit length is given by: Assume that each receiver has a load of   100   fF. 
(a)                      Explain why the capacitance has   the   functional   form   specified   above.   (8 points)
(b)                   Calculate the Elmore   delay   from A to   B.   (10 points)(c)                   Assume   the   Elmore   delay   calculated   in    (b).       If the   FO1   delay   of this   technology   is    50   psec,   would   resistance   have   to   be   considered   for   this   line   in   calculating   the   delay   from   A   to   B?   Explain. (8 points)(d)                   Now imagine widening the wire   from   A   to   X   from   0.4   μm to   10   μm.      What   is   the   Elmore delay now from A to B?   (10 points)
8.                         Consider the   following path   from   a   dynamic   gate through two   static   gates.          Assume that the   technology   is   characterized   by   a   gate   capacitance   per   unit   width   of   1   fF/μm.      Let   the   FO1 delay   of   this   technology   be τ1    = 25 psec.
(a)                   Estimate       the       delay      form      A      rising      to      E      rising      in      the      evaluate      phase      (φ =       1)       if W1=W2=W3=W4=W5=W6=   1 μm.    Let   Csidebranch      = 0. (10 points)(b)                   Keeping   W1    fixed   at    1   μm,   resize   the   network   to   minimize   the   delay   from   A   rising   to   E rising   with   Csidebranch      =   0.   Please   do   not   allow   the   beta   ratio   (ratio   of pFET   strength   to   nFET strength) for any gate become more than 4 or less than   0.25.   (15 points) 
(c)                   Using   the   sizing   of (b),   what   is   the   delay   from   A   rising   to   E   rising   with   Csidebranch      =   200 fF. (10 points)
9.                            Joe Engineer is designing a simple pass-transistor   latch   as   shown below.

He   finds   that   he   is   unable   to   write   the   latch;   that   is,   when   clk   is   high,   Y   is   not   affected   by   the   value of   A.    What has gone wrong?       How can this be fixed?   (10 points)

         
加QQ：99515681  WX：codinghelp  Email: 99515681@qq.com
